# Wharf API changelog

This project tries to follow [SemVer 2.0.0](https://semver.org/).

<!--
	When composing new changes to this list, try to follow convention.

	The WIP release shall be updated just before adding the Git tag.
	From (WIP) to (YYYY-MM-DD), ex: (2021-02-09) for 9th of Febuary, 2021

	A good source on conventions can be found here:
	https://changelog.md/
-->

## v4.2.0 (WIP)

- Added support for the TZ environment variable (setting timezones ex.
  `"Europe/Stockholm"`) through the tzdata package. (#40)

- Added config loading from YAML files using
  `github.com/iver-wharf/wharf-core/pkg/config` together with new config models
  for configuring wharf-api. See `config.go` or the reference documentation on
  the `Config` type for information on how to configure wharf-api. (#38)

- Deprecated all environment variable configs. They are still supported, but may
  be removed in the next major release (v5.0.0). Please refer to the new config
  schema seen in `config.go` and `config_example_test.go`. (#38)

- Added Makefile to simplify building and developing the project locally.
  (#41, #42)

- Added wharf-core logging for Gin debug and errors logging. (#45)

- Added wharf-core logging for GORM debug logging. (#45)

- Changed version of `github.com/iver-wharf/wharf-core` from v1.0.0 to v1.1.0.
  (#45)

## v4.1.1 (2021-07-12)

- Changed version of Docker base images:

  - Alpine: 3.13.4 -> 3.14.0 (#31, #36)
  - Golang: 1.13.4 -> 1.16.5 (#36)

- Changed version of GORMv2 from v1.20.12 to v1.21.11. No major changes, but as
  a bug in GORM was fixed we could finally move to the latest version. (#34)

- Changed references to wharf-core pkg/problem and pkg/ginutil. (#33)

- Changed all logging via `fmt.Print` and sirupsen/logrus to instead use the new
  `github.com/iver-wharf/wharf-core/pkg/logger`. (#37)

- Removed dependency on `github.com/sirupsen/logrus`. (#37)

## v4.1.0 (2021-06-10)

- Added endpoint `PUT /provider` as an idempotent way of creating a
  provider. (#28)

- Add endpoint `PUT /token` as an idempotent way of creating a
  token. (#26)

- Added environment var for setting bind address and port. (#29)

- Fixed missing `failed` field from `main.TestsResults` in
  `GET /build/{buildid}/tests-results`. (#25)

## v4.0.0 (2021-05-28)

- Added [IETF RFC-7807](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7807) compatible problem
  responses on errors instead of just strings. This is a breaking change if
  you're depending on the error message syntax from before. (!45, !46)

- Added Go module caching in the Dockerfile so local iterations will be
  slightly quicker to compile. (!44)

- Added endpoint `GET /version` that returns an object of version data of the
  API itself. (#2)

- Added Swagger spec metadata such as version that equals the version of the
  API, contact information, and license. (#2)

- Changed version of GORM from v1 to v2. Some constraints have been renamed in
  the database, and migrations were added to automatically upgrade the database.
  (!40)

- Changed version of github.com/gin-gonic/gin from v1.4.0 to v1.7.1. (!45)

- Changed GORM `.Where()` clause usage throughout the repo to use less
  positional references and more named references of fields. (!41)

- Changed Go runtime from v1.13 to v1.16. (!44)

- Changed to use `c.ShouldBindJSON` instead of `c.BindJSON` throughout the repo.
  This should result in fewer warnings being logged by gin-gonic. See issue
  [iver-wharf/iver-wharf.github.io#22](https://github.com/iver-wharf/iver-wharf.github.io/issues/22)
  for more information. (!46)

- Changed unimplemented endpoints to return HTTP 501 (Not Implemented)
  status code. Including: (!46)

  - `GET /branch/{branchid}`
  - `GET /branches`
  - `POST /builds/search`

- Removed DB column `token.provider_id` as it was causing a circular reference
  between the `token` and `provider` tables. The `POST /token` endpoint still
  accepts a `providerId` field, but this may be removed in the future. (!40)

- Removed gin-gonic logging endpoints `GET /logs` and `POST /logs`. (!47)

## v3.0.0 (2021-04-13)

- Added ability to sort builds in the `GET /projects/{projectid}/builds`
  endpoint using the new `orderby` query parameter, which defaults to
  `?orderby=buildId desc`. (!35)

- Added way to disable RabbitMQ integration via `RABBITMQENABLED` environment
  variable. If it's unset, empty, or `false` then the integration is disabled.
  If it's `true` then it's enabled. This means it will be disabled by default.
  (!38)

- Changed to use new open sourced `wharf-message-bus-sender` package
  [github.com/iver-wharf/messagebus-go](https://github.com/iver-wharf/messagebus-go)
  and bumped said package version from v0.1.0 to v0.1.1. (!34)

- Changed time fields to be marked with the OpenAPI format `date-time` in the
  build and log models so they can be appropriately parsed as `Date` in the
  TypeScript code generated by swagger-codegen-cli. (!36)

- Removed unused `random.go`. (!34)

- Added `GIT_BRANCH` to jobs params. (!37)

## v2.1.0 (2021-03-15)

- Added CHANGELOG.md to repository. (!26)

- Added `PUT /build/{buildid}?status={status}` to update build status. (!27)

- Changed build status naming. Moved to new file. (!28)

- Updated swag to version 1.7.0. (!30)

- Fixed swag comment to allow posting an artifact file. (!30)

- Fixed issue with wrong arifact downloaded from
  `/build/{buildid}/artifact/{artifactId}` endpoint. (!30)

- Updated swagger type from external library null.String to string. (!32)

## v2.0.0 (2021-01-15)

- Removed Wharf group database table migration that was introduced in v1.0.0.
  (!25)

- Removed `tfs` -> `azuredevops` provider name migration that was introduced
  in v0.8.0. (!25)

- Removed name column datatype change in branch table (to `varchar`)
  migration that was introduced in v1.0.1. (!25)

## v1.1.0 (2021-01-14)

- Changed `POST /project/{projectid}/{stage}/run` so the `branch` parameter is
  now optional, where it will use the default branch name if omitted. (!23)

- Changed `POST /project/{projectid}/{stage}/run` so the `environment` parameter
  is now optional, where it will start the build with no environment filter
  set. (!23)

- Changed the "environment" column in the "build" table to be nullable.
  Automatic migrations will be applied. (!23)

- Fixed `GET /stream` endpoint to sanitize JSON of data sent to `POST /log`
  endpoint. (!24)

## v1.0.1 (2021-01-07)

- Removed `project.BuildHistory` from all `GET /project/*` and
  `GET /projects/*` endpoints. (!18)

- Added new endpoint `GET /projects/{projectid}/builds` to get a paginated
  result of the list of builds. (!18)

- Added dependency on `github.com/sirupsen/logrus`. (!22)

- Fixed minor logging inconsistencies. (!22)

- Fixed wrong parameter type for `artifactId` in OpenAPI definition for
  `GET /build/{buildid}/artifact/{artifactId}`, `string` -> `int`. (!22)

- Changed name column datatype in branch table from `varchar(100)` to `varchar`,
  effectively removing the limit on the length of a project's name (!21).

## v1.0.0 (2020-11-27)

- Added implementation of `PUT /branches` endpoint. (!16)

- Added migrations to move the group data from the group database table to be
  embedded in the project table. (!20)

- Removed the group database table. (!20)

## v0.8.0 (2020-10-23)

- Changed `tfs` provider name to `azuredevops`, with migrations to update the
  database. (!17)

## v0.7.10 (2020-10-20)

- Added dependency on `wharf-message-bus-sender`. (!15)
- Added publishing of build events via RabbitMQ. (!15)

## v0.7.9 (2020-07-03)

- Added sending of `WHARF_INSTANCE` as a query parameter to the Jenkins webhook
  trigger. Value is taken from the `WHARF_INSTANCE` environment variable. (!14)

- Added sending of `REPO_NUMBER` as a query parameter to the Jenkins webhook
  trigger. Value is the project ID, taken from the database. (f9d794c)

## v0.7.8 (2020-06-23)

- Changed list of branches to be sorted by name in all projects endpoints. (!13)

## v0.7.7 (2020-06-04)

- Changed Dockerfile to use Iver self-signed cert from inside the repo at
  `/dev/ca-certificates.crt`. (!12)

## v0.7.6 (2020-06-03)

- Fixed configured cert path in Dockerfile. (!11)

## v0.7.5 (2020-05-29)

- Added Iver self-signed certs to be loaded into the Go `http.DefaultClient`.
  (!10)

## v0.7.2 (2020-05-06)

- Added missing OpenAPI parameters to the
  `POST /project/{projectid}/{stage}/run` endpoint. (!9)

- Added dummy reponse to Jenkins response to not need Jenkins locally, and the
  accompanying added `MOCK_LOCAL_CI_RESPONSE` environment variable to enable it.
  (!8)

- Added new fields to the "build" database table to be populated when starting
  a new build: "gitBranch", "environment", and "stage". (!7)

## v0.7.1 (2020-03-10)

- Changed artifact retreival to refer to the artifact ID instead of the
  artifacts name. `GET /build/{buildid}/artifact/{artifactname}` ->
  `GET /build/{buildid}/artifact/{artifactid}`. (!5)

- Changed OpenAPI return type of `GET /build/{buildid}/artifact/{artifactid}`
  to `file` (BLOB). (!6)

- Fixed logs getting spammed by health checks. Health checks are no longer
  visible in the logs. (!4)

- Fixed `DBLOG` setting only checking if the environment variable was present.
  It now parses the `DBLOG` environment variable as a boolean. (!4)

- Fixed branches not getting loaded in the `GET /projects` endpoint as they
  are in the `GET /project/{projectid}` endpoint. (!3)

## v0.7.0 (2020-02-20)

- Added test results endpoint `GET /tests-results` to return test result summary
  based on uploaded `.trx` artifacts. (!2)

## v0.6.0 (2020-02-04)

- Changed `JENKINS_URL` and `JENKINS_TOKEN` environment variables to `CI_URL`
  and `CI_TOKEN`, respectively. (b0ed707)

- Added "token" foreign key association from the "project" table to the "token"
  table in the database. (b0ed707)

- Added passing of Git provider access token to Jenkins via `GIT_TOKEN` query
  parameter. (b0ed707)

- Removed "job" table from the database. (0d85ddf, af35d71, f9bfbdd)

- Changed `swag init` build in Dockerfile to use `go.mod`. (e284dde)

## v0.5.5 (2020-01-17)

- Changed swaggo build to use Gomodules instead of fixed set of dependencies.
  Cleaning up the Dockerfile. (30110ed)

- Added search endpoint for projects `POST /projects/search`. (!1)

- Added `.wharf-ci.yml` to build via Wharf.

- Removed Wharf API Go client package (`/pkg/client/`) out into its own
  repository. (9685945)

- Added this repository by splitting it out from the joined repo. (a7d5f00)
